Update static graph spec (#4242)
Microsoft/msbuild: documentation/specs/static-graph.md

The graph also supports multiple entry points, so this enables scenarios where projects build with different platforms in one build. For example, one entry point could be a project with global properties of `Platform=x64` and another entry point might be that same project with `Platform=x86`. Because the project graph understands the metadata on project references as well, including `GlobalPropertiesToRemove`, this also enables the notion of "platform agnostic projects" which should only build once regardless of the platform. Note that multiple entry points will not be useable from the command-line due to the inability to express it concisely, and so programmatic access must be used in that case.

For example, if project A had a project reference to project B with `GlobalPropertiesToRemove=Platform`, and we wanted to build project A for x86 and x64 so used both as entry points, the graph would consist of 3 nodes: project A with `Platform=x86`, project A with `Platform=x64`, and project B with no global properties set.

> #### Crosstargeting

Author: So that's the official name? If so, then I will update the other PR too.

> #### Crosstargeting

Author: Ah, but all the files are named *.Crosstargeting.*, so now there's ambiguity. Is this some official rename and current artifacts with `Crosstargeting` in their names are grandfathered in as "whatever"?

> #### Crosstargeting

Reviewer: Essentially, yeah.

<!-- definition and TF example-->
Crosstargeting refers to projects that specify multiple build dimensions applicable to themselves. For example, `Microsoft.Net.Sdk` based projects can target multiple target frameworks (e.g. `<TargetFrameworks>net472;netcoreapp2.2</TargetFrameworks>`). As discussed, build dimensions are expressed as global properties. Let's call the global properties that define the crosstargeting set as the crosstargeting global properties.

<!-- how it works: outer builds and inner builds -->
Crosstargeting is implemented by having a project reference itself multiple times, once for each combination of crosstargeting global properties. This leads to multiple evaluations of the same project, with different global properties. These evaluations can be classified in two groups
1.  Multiple inner builds. Each inner build is evaluated with one set of crosstargeting global properties (e.g. the `TargetFramework=net472` inner build, or the `TargetFramework=netcoreapp2.2` inner build).

> 2.  One outer build. This evaluation does not have any crosstargeting global properties set. It can be viewed as a proxy for the inner builds. Other projects query the outer build in order to learn the set of valid crosstargeting global properties (the set of valid inner builds). When the outer build is also the root of the project to project graph, the outer build multicasts the entry target (i.e. `Build`, `Clean`, etc) to all inner builds.

Author: Not really, as `Build`, `Clean` are known graph wide operation for the SDK, and its multicasting code knows about both of them. Other SDKs that would want to implement their own multitargeting scheme, would have their own separate graph wide operations and their separate multicasting machinery. Unless the intent is that `Microsoft.Common.Crosstargeting.targets` should be used by all potentially crosstargeting SDKs. So I'd say to ignore this issue until the next crosstargeting SDK comes along and we have to actually decide on common infrastructure.

<!-- contract with the graph -->

In order for the graph to represent inner and outer builds as nodes, it imposes a contract on what crosstargeting means, and requires the crosstargeting supporting SDKs to implement this contract.

Crosstargeting supporting SDKs need to implement the following properties and semantics:

> - `InnerBuildProperty`. It contains the property name that defines the crosstargeting build dimension.

Author: I think the indirection should be there, to decouple crosstargeting from specific names.

- `InnerBuildPropertyValues`. It contains the property name that holds the possible values for the `InnerBuildProperty`.
- Project classification:
  - *Outer build*, when `$($(InnerBuildProperty))` is empty AND  `$($(InnerBuildPropertyValues))` is not empty.
  - *Dependent inner build*, when both `$($(InnerBuildProperty))` and  `$($(InnerBuildPropertyValues))` are non empty. These are inner builds that were generated from an outer build.

>   - *Standalone inner build*, when `$($(InnerBuildProperty))` is not empty and `$($(InnerBuildPropertyValues))` is empty. These are inner builds that were not generated from an outer build.

Author: `TargetFramework` is not filled in for legacy csprojes:
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2255729/54645278-b540a180-4a58-11e9-872b-6bbc9f8454a7.png)

So then with these `non crosstargeting` projects, SDKs can allow a mix of crosstargeting and non crosstargeting projects. If the need arises, we can add extra settings on how these are interpreted, like whether the SDK allows non crosstargeting projects or not.

>   - *Standalone inner build*, when `$($(InnerBuildProperty))` is not empty and `$($(InnerBuildPropertyValues))` is empty. These are inner builds that were not generated from an outer build.

Reviewer: I guess the larger question is: is there really a strong distinction between a single-targeted SDK-style project and a legacy csproj?

>   - *Standalone inner build*, when `$($(InnerBuildProperty))` is not empty and `$($(InnerBuildPropertyValues))` is empty. These are inner builds that were not generated from an outer build.

Author: For the current SDK not really, but the code needs to reason about each type of project, so every project needs a type :) It seemed somehow wrong to classify these non-participating projects as standalone inner builds, so I added this extra one. Let me know if you feel strongly about removing it.

  - *Non crosstargeting build*, when both `$($(InnerBuildProperty))` and  `$($(InnerBuildPropertyValues))` are empty.
- Node edges

>   - When project A references crosstargeting project B, and B is identified as an outer build, the graph node for project A will reference both the outer build of B, and all the inner builds of B. The edges to the inner builds are speculative, as at build time only one inner build gets referenced. However, the graph cannot know at evaluation time which inner build will get chosen.

Author: For now, yes. In the (near?) future, these edges will have some extra metadata so API users can traverse speculative edges. One use is post-processing the graph to filter for only one entry TF. Which would be useful for inner-loop scenarios where devs just want to quickly iterate on one TF and not wait for everything.

### Single project isolated builds: implementation details

<!-- workflow -->
Single project builds can be achieved by providing MSBuild with input and output cache files.

The input cache files contain the cached results of all of the current project's references. This way, when the current project executes, it will naturally build its references via [MSBuild task](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/msbuild/msbuild-task) calls. The engine, instead of executing these tasks, will serve them from the provided input caches. 

The output cache file tells MSBuild where it should serialize the results of the current project. This output cache would become an input cache for all other projects that depend on the current project.
The output cache file can be ommited in which case the build would just reuse prior results but not write out any new results. This could be useful when one wants to replay a build from previous caches.

The presence of either input or output caches turns on the isolated build constraints. The engine will fail the build on:

> - MSBuild task calls on projects files which were not defined in the `ProjectReference` item at evaluation time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MSBuild` task calls to project files which were not defined in the `ProjectReference` item at evaluation time.
```

> - MSBuild task calls which cannot be served from the cache

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `MSBuild` task calls which cannot be served from the cache
```

<!-- cache structure -->
These cache files contain the serialized state of MSBuild's [ConfigCache](https://github.com/Microsoft/msbuild/blob/master/src/Build/BackEnd/Components/Caching/ConfigCache.cs) and [ResultsCache](https://github.com/Microsoft/msbuild/blob/master/src/Build/BackEnd/Components/Caching/ResultsCache.cs). These two caches have been traditionally used by the engine to cache build results.

Cache structure: `(project path, global properties) -> results`

<!-- cache lifetime -->

> The caches are applicable for the entire duration of the MSBuild.exe process. The input and output caches have the same lifetime as the `ConfigCache` and the `ResultsCache`. The `ConfigCache` and the `ResultsCache` are owned by the [BuildManager](https://github.com/Microsoft/msbuild/blob/master/src/Build/BackEnd/BuildManager/BuildManager.cs), and their lifetimes are one `BuildManager.BeginBuild` / `BuildManager.EndBuild` session. Since MSBuild.exe uses one BuildManager with one BeginBuild / EndBuild session, the cache lifetime is the same as the entire process lifetime.

Reviewer: This gets a little wonky with node reuse, but I think it's ok to leave.

Author: Should be fine with NodeReuse, as the nodes get "reimaged", so all cache results are deleted between reuses.

<!-- constraints -->

> The following are some constraints enforced by the engine. They're just for 

Reviewer: Just for?

Author: Just for showing my sometimes short attention span :)

Input cache files constraints:
- A ConfigCache / ResultsCache mapping must be unique between all input caches (multiple input caches cannot provide information for the same cache entry)

> - For each input cache, ConfigCache.Entries.Size == ResultsCache.Entries.Size

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For each input cache, `ConfigCache.Entries.Size == ResultsCache.Entries.Size`
```
